<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Skyrim</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="costello_1026_XSLT3.css"/>
      <style></style>
   </head>
   <body>
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      The Oblivion Crisis
      by Praxis Sarcorum, Imperial Historian
      A summary of the events stemming from <strong>the assassination of Emperor Uriel Septim VII</strong>
      
      
      
      <p>At the turning of the Fourth Age, in the year 3E 433, <strong>the Emperor Uriel Septim VII was
            assassinated</strong> and <strong>the Amulet of Kings
            was destroyed</strong>. This set in motion a chain of events that would bring
         down an empire and change forever the relationship between man and the gods.</p>
      
      
      <p><strong>The assassins first attacked the
            Emperor</strong> in the
         White Gold Tower. While the Blades held them back,
         <strong>the Emperor made his way down to the
            dungeons</strong>, to a secret escape
         route built into one of the prison cells. For
         reasons known only to himself, the Emperor
         <strong>pardoned the fortunate prisoner</strong> in that cell. Some say the
         prisoner reminded him of a childhood friend. Others say it was a <strong>moment of
            prophecy</strong>. Whatever the case, the prisoner came to play a fateful role in the history of the
         Empire and Tamriel - surely a sign that
         the gods themselves were at work.</p>
      
      
      <p>The pursuing <strong>assassins killed the
            Blades bodyguards</strong> in a relentless
         series of sneak attacks. Eventually <strong>they
            struck down the Emperor
            himself</strong>. Before he fell, <strong>Uriel Septim VII gave the Amulet of Kings to
            the prisoner</strong>, who somehow
         <strong>made it out of the Imperial sewers</strong> and
         into the light of day.</p>
      
      
      <p>The assassination is now known to have been the work of a group of daedric cultists known as the Mythic Dawn. (Those who still suspect the Dark Brotherhood should consider two facts: first, they would have only
         needed a single assassin, not a small army of them; second, the Dark Brotherhood would never be so foolish as to
         <strong>effectively declare war on the Empire</strong> and thus ensure their
         complete destruction. Witness the eventual fate of the Mythic
         Dawn.)</p>
      
      
      
      
      <p>The Amulet of Kings next surfaced at Weynon
         Priory near Chorrol. Jauffre, secret Grandmaster of the
         Blades and head of the
         priory, <strong>took possession of the
            amulet</strong>. <strong>The messenger was sent off to Kvatch</strong> to find a lowly priest named Martin.
         Unbeknownst even to himself, Martin was the bastard son of Uriel Septim VII, and the last heir to the Ruby
         Throne. He alone could use the
         Amulet of Kings to light the Dragonfires that wards the
         barrier between Tamriel and Oblivion, and save
         the world from the Mythic Dawn plot.</p>
      
      
      <p><strong>The prisoner arrived at Kvatch</strong> to find it overrun by daedra that had poured in
         from a newly-opened Oblivion Gate, the start of the Empire-spanning devastation of
         the
         Oblivion Crisis. How <strong>the prisoner closed
            the gate</strong> is not recorded. Once closed, Martin and the surviving Kvatch
         guardsmen drove back the daedra.</p>
      
      
      <p>Now known as the Hero of Kvatch, <strong>the prisoner and Martin
            returned to Weynon Priory</strong>, only to find the
         priory sacked and the Amulet taken.
         Jauffre survived the attack, however, and
         <strong>the three of them
            made their way to Cloud Ruler Temple</strong>, bastion of
         the Blades. This secret fortress in
         the mountains outside Bruma is
         where Martin was held safe while
         <strong>the Hero of Kvatch searched for the lost
            Amulet</strong>.</p>
      
      
      <p>Knowing only that a mysterious group called the Mythic
         Dawn was behind the <strong>assassination and theft of the
            Amulet</strong>, <strong>the Hero of Kvatch was sent to locate
            the cult</strong>. With the help of
         Baurus, a Blade in the
         service of the Emperor, they somehow <strong>used the
            Commentaries on the Mysterium Xarxes</strong>,
         esoteric works by the madman Mankar Camoran,
         to direct them to the Mythic Dawn's secret lair. Scholars
         familiar with the Commentaries claim the location is not directly
         mentioned in them. How they did this remains a mystery.</p>
      
      
      <p>No official records exist of how <strong>the Hero of
            Kvatch penetrated the Mythic Dawn's lair</strong>
         near Lake Arrius. There is a bardic tale that claims the Hero used <strong>trickery and disguise</strong>, but
         that is just speculation.What was discovered there is that Mankar Camoran was behind the Mythic Dawn, and that the group worshiped the daedric prince Mehrunes Dagon. Mankar
         Camoran believed himself to
         be a direct descendant of the Camoran Usurper, the infamous
         pretender to the throne of Valenwood.</p>
      
      
      <p>Somehow <strong>the Hero escaped with the
            Mysterium Xarxes itself</strong>, the holy book of
         the Mythic Dawn cult. Mankar Camoran fled to Oblivion with the
         Amulet of Kings. With some effort and great risk to
         his sanity, <strong>Martin deciphered the Mysterium
            Xarxes</strong> and intended to use it to open a gateway
         to Mankar Camoran in order to recover the
         Amulet of Kings.</p>
      
      
      <p>Before Martin could perform the ritual
         to open the gateway, <strong>Mehrunes
            Dagon opened an Oblivion Gate outside Bruma</strong>. <strong>The Hero of
            Kvatch saved the city and Martin
            by entering the gate and closing it</strong> before a daedric siege engine could destroy Bruma
         and Cloud Ruler Temple. Many songs and stories have been told of
         this battle and I will not retell them here. The Hero of Kvatch was now also known as the Savior of Bruma.</p>
      
      
      <p>With the city and Cloud Ruler
         Temple safe, <strong>Martin
            opened the portal to Mankar Camoran's
            "Paradise"</strong>. The details of what transpired in
         this place have not been recorded. All that is known is that
         <strong>the Savior of Bruma travelled to this Paradise,
            killed Mankar Camoran, and returned with
            the Amulet of Kings</strong>.</p>
      
      
      <p>With the Amulet in hand, <strong>Martin Septim presented himself to the Elder
            Council to be crowned Emperor of all
            Tamriel</strong>. Once crowned he planned to relight the Dragonfires and seal
         Tamriel from Oblivion. In a last-ditch
         attempt to stop him, <strong>Mehrunes Dagon launched an assault on the
            Imperial City, opening several Oblivion Gates
            within the capital itself</strong>. Uncrowned,
         Martin joined the battle in the city streets.</p>
      
      
      <p><strong>Mehrunes Dagon himself
            left Oblivion and entered
            Tamriel</strong>, breaking the covenant. Only the unlit
         Dragonfires allowed this to be possible. Now that the barrier was ripped asunder,
         it was
         too late to relighting the Fires. Martin
         Septim chose to make the ultimate sacrifice - <strong>he shattered the Amulet of
            Kings to become the avatar of the god
            Akatosh and do battle with Mehrunes
            Dagon</strong>.</p>
      
      
      <p>Records of this battle vary wildly. What we do know is that
         <strong>Mehrunes Dagon was
            defeated and sent back to Oblivion</strong>.
         <strong>The avatar of Akatosh was
            turned to stone</strong> and can be seen to this day in the Temple of
         the One in the Imperial City. With the
         Amulet gone, the Dragonfires quenched, and the last
         Dragonblood Emperor dead, the barrier to Oblivion is sealed
         forever.</p>
      
      </body>
</html>